---
title: 30 Day Composition Project
layout: post
date: 2019-05-10
---


It's time. I must say that I've waited quite long enough to do this. I have no idea why I waited so long. I just got really busy with life, but I'm not here to make (more) excuses for lost time. Now is the time. So, what is this project (I posed this question coming to the realization that no one is reading this probably. Then, I re-realized that this idea is a direct insult to the reader, the one reading this possibly. For that I apologize. You are most certainly someone)? 

So, I'm stating this project...today, a music composition project that will last the duration of 30 days. I, therefore, challenge myself to compose one piece daily. I imagine that I will recieve many questions as to why I am doing this. Well, I am prepared to tell you. Afterall, I have been thinking about this idea since the beginning of the year. So, here it goes. 

I'm tired of calling myself a composer, and having little to no proof of that being true. I'm musical. That much can be proven. What I need is a body of work. More than something I made when I was 16, this work should reflect who I am now. Also, I need practice. It's hard for me to believe that I use to write music everday. I'm so out of practice that I fear the difficulty of being terrible at doing what I love. I need to test this theory. Do I love the art of musical creation? Surely, I used to, but does it apply today. Lastly, I need accountability from you who are stumbling upon this somewhere on the internet. That's quite enough sentiment for one post. Let's go over the rules. 

The premise is one piece of music per day for 30 days. It must be recorded in a listenable format, and it will be posted on my soundcloud page. I'm hoping to have 100 minutes of music with diverse instrumentation by the end of the project. 10 days ahead, a six sided die should be rolled for a series of 10 numbers. This is to determine the number of instruments that should be used for the next ten pieces. Then, the numbers should be placed strategically on each day based on time that will be available. As for interpreting the numbers on the die: 1 is either a solo or sectional, 2 is a duet, 3 is a trio, 4 is a quartet, 5 is to utilize 3 soloists and 2 sections, and 6 is to utilize 4 soloists and 2 sections. As each day approaches, certain preparation should commence. Using a "choose for me" app, the number of instruments will be drawn randomly. For days in which sections of instruments are required or optional, the drawn instrument's family IS the section (i.e. trumpet = brass section, violin = string section). A maximum of 3 'ones' can be rolling within 10 days. If 3 'ones' are rolled, one of those days, a piano solo should be composed. 

I believe that covers it. My hope is that this project expands my ability and enriches my musical creativity. If I want to achieve this, I must be somewhat regimented. That's why I created the rules above. Maybe it will sreamline the process a bit.
If all goes according to plan, I should have a diverse body of musical work towards the middle of June. Let's do this! 




